JS SDK Revamp (#725)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api.mdx

---
title: "Supported API"
description: Detailed technical documentation on the implementation and usage of the supported JavaScript SDK API.
---

> The JavaScript SDK provides a comprehensive API that lets you send your event data to any destination easily.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JavaScript SDK provides a comprehensive API that lets you track and send your event data to any destination.
```

## Identify

The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/identify/">`identify`</Link> method lets you identify a user and associate them to their actions. It also lets you record any traits about them like their name, email, etc. 

> Once the `identify` call is made, the SDK persists the user information and passes it to the subsequent <Link to="#track">`track`</Link> or <Link to="#page">`page`</Link> calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you make the `identify` call, the SDK persists the user information and passes it to the subsequent calls.
```

Reviewer: As the subsequent calls might not be limited to just `track` or `page`.

The JavaScript SDK defines the `identify` method as shown:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify(userId, [traits], [apiOptions], [callback]);
```

The following table describes the above (optional) parameters in detail:

|  Parameter     |Type        |  Description          |
| :------------- |:---------- |  :-------------------------- |
|  `userId`      | String     |  Defines the user ID in database. When provided, this argument is sent to the destinations as user ID instead of `anonymousId`.                                                                                                  |

> |  `traits`      | Dictionary |  Contains the traits or properties associated with a `userId` such as email, address, etc. <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/identify/#identify-traits">Reference</Link>. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  `traits`      | Dictionary |  Contains the user's traits or the properties associated with `userId` such as email, address, etc. <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/identify/#identify-traits">Reference</Link>. |
```

> |  `callback`    | Function   | Called after the successful execution of `identify` method. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  `callback`    | Function   | Called after the successful execution of the `identify` method. |
```

|  `apiOptions`     | Dictionary | Provides information such as `integrations`, `anonymousId`, and `originalTimestamp`.  |

####  `apiOptions`

> The structure of **apiOptions** parameter is as shown:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The structure of the `apiOptions` parameter is as shown:
```

```javascript
{
  integrations: IntegrationOpts,
  anonymousId: string,
  originalTimestamp: ISO 8601 date string,
  <other keys>: <value> // merged with event's contextual information
}
```
The following table describes the above parameters in detail:

| **Parameter**                   | **Type**                                | **Description**  |
| :-------------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :----------------------- |
| `integrations`         | <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/load-js-sdk/#integrationopts">IntegrationOpts</Link> | Use to send event data only to the <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/filtering/#filtering-destinations">selective destinations</Link>.   |
| `anonymousId`           | String                              | Overrides the current event's `anonymousId` at the top level. |

> | `originalTimestamp`     | ISO 8601 Date string                | Overrides the current event's `originalTimestamp` at the top level. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `originalTimestamp`     | ISO 8601 Date string                | Overrides the current event's `originalTimestamp` at the top level. <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/common-fields/#clock-skew-considerations">Reference.</Link> |
```

| `<other keys>: <value>` | -                                   | Merged with the event's contextual information. |

A sample `identify` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify(
    "1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", {
        firstName: "Alex",
        lastName: "Keener",
        email: "alex@example.com",
        phone: "+1-202-555-0146"
    }, {
        page: {
            path: "/best-seller/1",
            referrer: "https://www.google.com/search?q=estore+bestseller",
            search: "estore bestseller",
            title: "The best sellers offered by EStore",
            url: "https://www.estore.com/best-seller/1"
        }
    },
    () => {
        console.log("identify call");
    }
);

> ```

Reviewer: Beautified code:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify(
  "1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", {
    firstName: "Alex",
    lastName: "Keener",
    email: "alex@example.com",
    phone: "+1-202-555-0146"
  }, {
    page: {
      path: "/best-seller/1",
      referrer: "https://www.google.com/search?q=estore+bestseller",
      search: "estore bestseller",
      title: "The best sellers offered by EStore",
      url: "https://www.estore.com/best-seller/1"
    }
  },
  () => {
    console.log("identify call");
  }
);
```

In the above example, the JavaScript SDK captures the `userId`, `email` and the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/common-fields/#contextual-fields">contextual information</Link>.

<div class="warningBlock">

> If you explicitly specify the IP address in the event payload, RudderStack uses that instead of capturing it in the backend. You can use this feature to anonymize your users' IP address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you specify the IP address in the event payload, RudderStack uses that instead of automatically capturing it in the backend. You can use this feature to anonymize your users' IP addresses.
```

</div>

### Anonymous ID

The `anonymousId` is an auto-generated **UUID** (Universally Unique Identifier) that gets assigned to each unique and unidentified visitor to your website.

#### Retrieving anonymous ID

To retrieve the anonymous ID of any visitor, run the following:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.getAnonymousId();
```

<div class="infoBlock">

> If the <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code> is null in the SDK and you call the above function, RudderStack will automatically set a new <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code> is <code class="inline-code">null</code> in the SDK and you call the above function, RudderStack will automatically set a new <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code>.
```

</div>

> #### Using anonymous ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### How the SDK uses `anonymousId`
```

> The JavaScript SDK generates a unique `anonymousId`, stores it in the `rl_anonymous_id` cookie in the top-level domain, and attaches it to every subsequent event. This helps RudderStack to identify the anonymous users from other sites that are hosted under a sub-domain. Refer to the <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/data-storage-cookies/">Data Storage</Link> guide for more information on how the JavaScript SDK stores persistent user data in cookies. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JavaScript SDK generates a unique `anonymousId`, stores it in the `rl_anonymous_id` cookie in the top-level domain, and attaches it to every subsequent event. This helps RudderStack to identify the anonymous users from other sites hosted under a sub-domain. 

<div class="infoBlock">
Refer to the <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/data-storage-cookies/">Data Storage</Link> guide for more information on how the JavaScript SDK stores persistent user data in cookies.
</div>
```

<div class="infoBlock">
If you identify a user with your application's unique identifier like email, database ID, etc., RudderStack stores this ID in the <code class="inline-code">rl_user_id</code> cookie and attaches it to every event.
</div>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<div class="infoBlock">
Refer to the <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/data-storage-cookies/">Data Storage</Link> guide for more information on how the JavaScript SDK stores persistent user data in cookies.
</div>

```

#### Overriding anonymous ID

> There are three options using which you can override the `anonymousId` generated by the JavaScript SDK:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use any of the following three methods to override the `anonymousId` generated by the JavaScript SDK:
```

> * Provide the `anonymousId` in the **apiOptions** parameter of the `identify` call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Provide the `anonymousId` in the `apiOptions` parameter of the `identify` call.
```

<div class="infoBlock">
Note that all other events will have the <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code> persisted from the cookie, except the particular event where you override the <strong>apiOptions</strong> parameter.
</div>

An example is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify(
    "1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", {
        email: "alex@example.com"
    }, {
        anonymousId: "my-anonymous-id"
    },
    () => {
        console.log("identify call");
    }
);

> ```

Reviewer: Beautified code:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify(
  "1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", {
    email: "alex@example.com"
  }, {
    anonymousId: "my-anonymous-id"
  },
  () => {
    console.log("identify call");
  }
);
```

* Set the `anonymousId` for all the future events using the `setAnonymousId()` method. An example is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.setAnonymousId("my-anonymous-id");

// All event payloads will have the anonymousId key set "my-anonymous-id".
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", { email1: "alex@example.com" }, () => {
  console.log("identify call");
});

> ```

Reviewer: Beautified code:

```
rudderanalytics.setAnonymousId("my-anonymous-id");
// All event payloads will have the anonymousId key set "my-anonymous-id".
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", {
  email1: "alex@example.com"
}, () => {
  console.log("identify call");
});
```

* Parse the AMP Linker ID and set the `anonymousId` using AMP Analytics, as shown:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.setAnonymousId(
    null,
    "<version>*<checkSum>*<idName1>*<idValue1>*<idName2>*<idValue2>..."
);

> ```

Reviewer: ```
rudderanalytics.setAnonymousId(
  null,
  "<version>*<checkSum>*<idName1>*<idValue1>*<idName2>*<idValue2>..."
);
```

Here, the second parameter is the AMP Linker ID format in the [**specified structure**](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/extensions/amp-analytics/linker-id-receiving.md#format).  For websites using the <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-amp-analytics/#amp-linker">RudderStack AMP Analytics SDK</Link>, the `<idName1>` value will be `rs_amp_id`.

Calling the above method will parse the Linker ID and set the `rs_amp_id` key value as the `anonymousId`.

### Setting a blank user ID

To set a blank user ID, you can pass an empty string or `" "` to `userId`.

<div class="warningBlock">

> Do not identify with <code class="inline-code">null</code> as it will not allow you to pass a traits object and will keep the current <code class="inline-code">userId</code>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not pass an <code class="inline-code">identify</code> call with <code class="inline-code">null</code> as RudderStack will not allow you to pass a traits object and retain the current <code class="inline-code">userId</code>.
```

</div>

#### Use-case

> Suppose an anonymous user is identified with a `userId` and then logs out of their account. You can then call `identify("", {isLoggedIn: false})` and the user will continue to be identified by their `anonymousId` for future events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose an anonymous user is identified with a `userId` and then logs out of their account. You can then call `identify("", {isLoggedIn: false})` and the user will continue to be identified by their `anonymousId` for the future events.
```

### Identifying new users

> To identify new users in scenarios like new logins, you can do one of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To identify new users in scenarios like new logins, you can use any one of the following approaches:
```

* Call `identify` with a new `userId` 

> <br/> OR

Author: kept 'OR' explicitly to emphasize the alternate usage

* Call `reset` followed by the `identify`

RudderStack resets all the cookies related to the user (associated with the `userId` and `traits`) and updates them with the newly provided values.

<div class="infoBlock">

> The <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code> will remain unchanged in this case. It will be the auto-generated value set by the SDK or the one you have set explicitly using the <code class="inline-code">setAnonymousId</code> method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code> will remain unchanged in this case. It will be the auto-generated value set by the SDK or the one explicitly set using the <code class="inline-code">setAnonymousId</code> method.
```

</div>

### Updating user traits

For updating the user traits, you can call `identify` method with the same `userId` multiple times with the new traits. This will append or modify all the traits associated with that user. An example is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", { email1: "alex@example.com" }, () => {
  console.log("identify call");
});

rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", { email2: "john@example.com" }, () => {
  console.log("identify call");
});

> ```

Reviewer: ```
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", {
  email1: "alex@example.com"
}, () => {
  console.log("identify call");
});
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", {
  email2: "john@example.com"
}, () => {
  console.log("identify call");
});
```

In the above example, both `email1` and `email2` will be sent in the payload for the second `identify` call.

<div class="infoBlock">

> Calling <code class="inline-code">reset()</code> API will reset the earlier traits and calling <code class="inline-code">identify()</code> API with new traits will update the new values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calling <code class="inline-code">reset()</code> will reset the existing user traits and calling <code class="inline-code">identify()</code> with new traits will update the new user traits.
```

</div>

## Page

The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/page/">`page`</Link> call lets you record your website's page views with any additional relevant information about the viewed page.

<div class="infoBlock">

> Many destinations require the <code class="inline-code">page</code> events to be called at least once every page load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many destinations require the <code class="inline-code">page</code> call to be made at least once every page load.
```

</div>

The JavaScript SDK defines the `page` method as shown:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.page(category, name, [properties], [apiOptions], [callback]);
```

The following table describes the above (optional) parameters in detail:

| **Parameter**    | **Type**   |  **Description**                                                                    |
| :--------------- |:-----------|  :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `category`       |String      |  Category of the page.                                                       |
| `name`           | String     |  Name of the page.                                                      |

> | `properties`     | Dictionary | Properties of the page, auto-captured by the SDK. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `properties`     | Dictionary | Properties of the page auto-captured by the SDK. |
```

> | `apiOptions`        | Dictionary |  Provides information such as `integrations`, `anonymousId`, and `originalTimestamp`.  <Link to="#apiOptions">Reference</Link>.   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `apiOptions`        | Dictionary |  Provides information such as `integrations`, `anonymousId`, and `originalTimestamp`.  <Link to="#apioptions">Reference</Link>.   |
```

| `callback`       | Function   | Called after the successful execution of `page` method.                 |

A sample `page` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.page(
    "Cart",
    "Cart Viewed", {
        path: "/best-seller/1",
        referrer: "https://www.google.com/search?q=estore+bestseller",
        search: "estore bestseller",
        title: "The best sellers offered by EStore",
        url: "https://www.estore.com/best-seller/1"
    },
    () => {
        console.log("page call");
    }
);

> ```

Reviewer: Code can be beautified as:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.page(
  "Cart",
  "Cart Viewed", {
    path: "/best-seller/1",
    referrer: "https://www.google.com/search?q=estore+bestseller",
    search: "estore bestseller",
    title: "The best sellers offered by EStore",
    url: "https://www.estore.com/best-seller/1"
  },
  () => {
    console.log("page call");
  }
);
```

In the above example, the JavaScript SDK captures the page `category`, `name` and the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/common-fields/#contextual-fields">contextual information</Link>.

## Track

> The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track/">`track`</Link> call lets you capture user events along with the properties associated with them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track/">`track`</Link> call lets you capture user events along with the associated properties.
```

The JavaScript SDK defines the `track` method as shown:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.track(event, [properties], [apiOptions], [callback]);
```

The following table describes the above parameters in detail:

| **Parameter**    | **Type**   | **Presence** | **Description**                                               |
| :--------------- |:-----------| :----------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `event`          | String     | Required     | Captures the name of the tracked event.                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `event`          | String     | Required     | The name of the tracked event.                       |
```

> | `properties`     | Dictionary | Optional     | Tracks the event properties.                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `properties`     | Dictionary | Optional     | The event-related properties.                                  |
```

> | `apiOptions`       | Dictionary | Optional     | Provides information such as `integrations`, `anonymousId`, and `originalTimestamp`. <Link to="#apiOptions">Reference</Link>.         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `apiOptions`       | Dictionary | Optional     | Provides information such as `integrations`, `anonymousId`, and `originalTimestamp`. <Link to="#apioptions">Reference</Link>.         |
```

| `callback`       | Function   | Optional     | Called after the successful execution of the `track` call.|

A sample `track` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.track(
    "Order Completed", {
        revenue: 30,
        currency: "USD",
        user_actual_id: 12345
    },
    () => {
        console.log("track call");
    }
);

> ```

Reviewer: ```
rudderanalytics.track(
  "Order Completed", {
    revenue: 30,
    currency: "USD",
    user_actual_id: 12345
  },
  () => {
    console.log("track call");
  }
);
```

> In the above example, the `track` method tracks the `Order Completed` event along with other information like `revenue`, `currency`, and the user ID.

Reviewer: Should `user_actual_id` be `userId` instead? cc @MoumitaM

<div class="warningBlock">

> Refer to the <Link to="/event-spec/ecommerce-events-spec/">E-Commerce events specification</Link> guide to know about the e-commerce events captured by RudderStack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the <Link to="/event-spec/ecommerce-events-spec/">E-Commerce Events Specification</Link> guide to know about the e-commerce events captured by RudderStack.
```

</div>

## Alias

The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/alias/">`alias`</Link> call lets you merge different identities of a known user.

The JavaScript SDK defines the `alias` method as shown:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.alias(to, from, [apiOptions], [callback]);
```

The following table describes the above parameters in detail:

| **Parameter**  |**Type** | **Presence** | **Description** |
| :------------- |:--------| :----------- | :---------------|
| `to`        | String     | Required     | New user identifier. |
| `from`      | String     | Optional     | Old user identifier which will be an alias for the `to` parameter. If not provided, the SDK populates this as the currently identified `userId`, or `anonymousId` in case of anonymous users. |

> | `apiOptions`  | Dictionary  | Optional     | Provides information such as `integrations`, `anonymousId`, and `originalTimestamp`. <Link to="#apiOptions">Reference</Link>.      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `apiOptions`  | Dictionary  | Optional     | Provides information such as `integrations`, `anonymousId`, and `originalTimestamp`. <Link to="#apioptions">Reference</Link>.      |
```

| `callback` | Function    | Optional     |  Called after the successful execution of the `alias` call. |

A sample `alias` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.alias("new_id", "old_id", () => {
    console.log("alias call");
});

> ```

Reviewer: ```
rudderanalytics.alias("new_id", "old_id", () => {
  console.log("alias call");
});
```

## Group

> The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/group/">`group`</Link> call lets you associate a particular identified user with a group, such as a company, organization, or an account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/group/">`group`</Link> call lets you associate an identified user with a group such as a company, organization, or an account.
```

The JavaScript SDK defines the `group` method as shown:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.group(groupId, [traits], [apiOptions], [callback]);
```

The following table describes the above parameters in detail:

| **Parameter**  |**Type** | **Presence** | **Description** |
| :------------- |:--------| :----------- | :-------------- |

> | `groupId`  |String | Required     | Group identifier to which the traits are to be modified or added. RudderStack calls the destination APIs to attach the currently identified user to this group.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `groupId`  |String | Required     | The unique group identifier in the database. RudderStack calls the destination APIs to attach the currently identified user to this group.|
```

> | `traits`   | Dictionary | Optional     | Group traits. RudderStack passes these traits to the destination to enhance the group properties.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `traits`   | Dictionary | Optional     | The group-related traits. RudderStack passes these traits to the destination to enhance the group properties. |
```

> | `apiOptions`  | Dictionary | Optional     | Provides information such as `integrations`, `anonymousId`, and `originalTimestamp`. <Link to="#apiOptions">Reference</Link>.      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `apiOptions`  | Dictionary | Optional     | Provides information such as `integrations`, `anonymousId`, and `originalTimestamp`. <Link to="#apioptions">Reference</Link>.      |
```

| `callback` | Function | Optional     | Called after the successful execution of the `group` call.|

A sample `group` call is shown:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.group("sample_group_id", {
    name: "Apple Inc.",
    location: "USA",
});

> ```

Reviewer: ```
rudderanalytics.group("sample_group_id", {
  name: "Apple Inc.",
  location: "USA",
});
```

## Reset

The `reset` method resets the ID and traits of both the user and the group.

The JavaScript SDK defines the `reset` method as shown:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.reset();
```

You can also reset the `anonymousId` along with the above-mentioned details by passing `true` to the `reset()` method, as shown:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.reset(true);
```

<div class="warningBlock">

> <code class="inline-code">reset()</code> method only clears the <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/data-storage-cookies/">cookies and local storage</Link> set by RudderStack. It does not clear the information stored by the integrated destinations. To completely clear the user session, refer to the destination-specific documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The <code class="inline-code">reset()</code> method only clears the <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/data-storage-cookies/">cookies and local storage</Link> set by RudderStack. It does not clear the information stored by the integrated destinations. To completely clear the user session, refer to the destination-specific documentation.
```

</div>

## Callbacks to common methods

RudderStack lets you define callbacks to the common methods of the `rudderanalytics` object.

<div class="warningBlock">
This functionality is supported only for the <code class="inline-code">syncPixel</code> method which is called by the SDK while making synchronization calls for the relevant destinations.
</div>

An example is shown below:

```javascript
<script>
rudderanalytics.syncPixelCallback = obj => {
    rudderanalytics.track(
        "sync lotame", {
            destination: obj.destination
        }, {
            integrations: {
                All: false,
                S3: true
            }
        }
    );
};

> </script>

Reviewer: ```
rudderanalytics.syncPixelCallback = obj => {
  rudderanalytics.track(
    "sync lotame", {
      destination: obj.destination
    }, {
      integrations: {
        All: false,
        S3: true
      }
    }
  );
};
```

We can also delete the <script> tag in the above snippet.

<script src="https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/rudder-analytics.min.js"></script>
```

> Here, RudderStack defines `syncPixelCallback` on the `rudderanalytics` object while loading the SDK. Further, RudderStack calls this registered callback with the parameter `{destination: <destination_name>}` whenever a sync call is made from the SDK to the relevant integration, for example, Lotame.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, RudderStack defines `syncPixelCallback` on the `rudderanalytics` object while loading the SDK. Further, RudderStack calls this registered callback with the parameter `{destination: <destination_name>}` whenever a sync call is made from the SDK to the relevant integration, in this case -Lotame.
```

You can also add the callback in the **loadOptions** parameter as shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY, DATA_PLANE_URL, {
    clientSuppliedCallbacks: {
        syncPixelCallback: () => {
            console.log("sync done");
        },
    },
});

> ```

Reviewer: ```
rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY, DATA_PLANE_URL, {
  clientSuppliedCallbacks: {
    syncPixelCallback: () => {
      console.log("sync done");
    },
  },
});
```

<div class="infoBlock">

> Replace the <Link to="/resources/glossary/#write-key">Write key</Link> and <Link to="/dashboard-guides/overview/#data-plane-url">Data plane URL</Link> in the above snippet with actual values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace <Link to="/resources/glossary/#write-key"><code class="inline-code">WRITE_KEY</code></Link> and <Link to="/dashboard-guides/overview/#data-plane-url"><code class="inline-code">DATA_PLANE_URL</code></Link> in the above snippet with the actual values.
```

</div>

## Querystring API

RudderStack's Querystring API lets you trigger the `track` and `identify` calls using the query parameters within the URL. The query parameters are listed in the following table:

| Parameter             |Action                   |
| :-------------------- | :--------------------------|
| `ajs_uid`             | Triggers a `rudderanalytics.identify()` call with `userId` having the parameter value.                                               |
| `ajs_aid`             | Triggers a `rudderanalytics.setAnonymousId()` call with `anonymousId` having the parameter value.                                    |
| `ajs_event`           | Triggers a `rudderanalytics.track()` call with `event` name as the parameter value.                                                  |
| `ajs_prop_<property>` | If `ajs_event` is passed as a query string, the value of this parameter populates the `properties` of the corresponding event in the `track` call.                                                                                                                                                  |

> | `ajs_trait_<trait>`   | If `ajs_uid` is provided as a query sting, the value of this parameter will populate the `traits` of the `identify` call made.       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ajs_trait_<trait>`   | If `ajs_uid` is provided as a query string, the value of this parameter will populate the `traits` of the `identify` call made.       |
```

For example, consider the following URL containing the querystring parameters:

```javascript
http://hostname.com/?ajs_uid=12345&ajs_event=test%20event&ajs_aid=abcde&ajs_prop_testProp=prop1&ajs_trait_name=Firstname+Lastname
```

It will trigger the following API calls:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.setAnonymousId("abcde");
rudderanalytics.identify("12345", { name: "Firstname Lastname" });
rudderanalytics.track("test event", { testProp: "prop1" });

> ```

Reviewer: //Sets the user ID/anonymous ID

rudderanalytics.setAnonymousId("abcde");

// Identify call

rudderanalytics.identify("12345", {
  name: "Firstname Lastname"
});

// Track call

rudderanalytics.track("test event", {
  testProp: "prop1"
});

> ## Context and Traits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Context and traits
```

> RudderStack provides the option to automatically capture the certain event-specific and user-specific data, based on the type of the event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JavaScript SDK automatically captures certain event-specific and user-specific data based on the event type.
```

> The `context` and `traits` dictionaries are provided in the <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#apiOptions">`apiOptions`</Link> parameter of the supported API methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `context` and `traits` dictionaries are provided in the <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#apioptions">`apiOptions`</Link> parameter of the supported API methods.
```

### Context

> The `context` is a dictionary of additional information about a particular event data, such as a user’s locale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `context` object is a dictionary of additional information about a particular event data, such as a user’s locale.
```

<div class="infoBlock">
A context is a complete and specific piece of information. Any other information provided outside this specification is ignored.
</div>

### Traits

> The `traits` is an optional dictionary included within <Link to="#context">`context`</Link> which specifies the user's unique traits. This is a very useful field for linking the user's information from a previously made <Link to="http://localhost:8001/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#identify">`identify`</Link> call to the subsequent <Link to="http://localhost:8001/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#track">`track`</Link> or <Link to="http://localhost:8001/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#page">`page`</Link> calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `traits` object is an optional dictionary included within <Link to="#context">`context`</Link> which specifies the user's unique traits. This is a very useful field for linking the user's information from a previously made <Link to="http://localhost:8001/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#identify">`identify`</Link> call to the subsequent <Link to="http://localhost:8001/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#track">`track`</Link> or <Link to="http://localhost:8001/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#page">`page`</Link> calls.
```

#### Use-case

To understand the concept of context and traits better, refer to the following `identify` event:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", {
    name: "Alex Keener",
    email: "alex@example.com",
    subscriptionStatus: "subscribed",
    plan: "Silver"
});

> ```

Reviewer: ```
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", {
  name: "Alex Keener",
  email: "alex@example.com",
  subscriptionStatus: "subscribed",
  plan: "Silver"
});
```

> The traits in the above event are `name`, `email`, `subscriptionStatus`, and `plan`. If you wish to add new or override any traits in the subsequent `track` or `page` event triggered by the user, you can do so by passing it in `traits` as shown:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The traits in the above event are `name`, `email`, `subscriptionStatus`, and `plan`. If you wish to add or override any traits in the subsequent `track` or `page` event triggered by the user, you can do so by passing it in `traits` as shown:
```

```javascript
rudderanalytics.track(
    "Subscription Update", {
        campaign: "Subscribe"
    }, {
        traits: {
            plan: "Gold",
            addOn: true
        }
    }
);

> ```

Reviewer: ```
rudderanalytics.track(
  "Subscription Update", {
    campaign: "Subscribe"
  }, {
    traits: {
      plan: "Gold",
      addOn: true
    }
  }
);
```

> The above snippet will add a new trait `addOn` and modify the `plan` traits value to `gold` in the `track` event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above snippet will add a new trait `addOn` and update the user trait `plan` to `Gold`.
```
